Is there some special reason you know about Vanessa? No, no.
I was just-
She asks, mm. Oh. Yeah, yeah. Um
...
(bell rings)
(bell rings again)
There it is. A. Yes. Good morning, Sir Peter.
Good morning, Paramjit.
How are you? Ready for half an hour?
I'm always re- I'm always ready to talk about science, you know that.
Yes, I know that. (laughs) Thank you so much.
And is, uh, Hema joining you as well?
She may. She'll be at home, so I presume she'll join in from the s- uh, in a
minute. So-
Okay.
... uh-
So you think there
has to be- ... we're doing it both from home.
So you want us to wait for her or?
No, no. Please go- proceed.
Uh-
Your time is important.
All right. So, th- we want to focus on the second report.
Under- Understand.
And yeah, so if you could, um, open with some remarks, like a
very, very quick summary of the second report- Yes.
then we will go on to questions from members. Thank you.
Right. Well, I think the second report
really has a lot of detail in it about what is necessary
for science and innovation to really contribute to New
Zealand's economic, social, environmental
wellbeing. It's far more than just about structural change,
which was largely dealt with
in the first report. And I think the key issue
is, there's a lot of, uh, what I'd call nuanced
detail that's in the second report, which is necessary to be
understood. I think the most important thing is
to recognize that the system is fragile,
because it's been chronically underfunded for at least 40
years. And that without, while
structural change was essential, and the report talks a lot
about the details of structural change, is the
fundamentals that New Zealand failed, unlike
other small economies, to replace manufacturing in
the ni- when globalization occurred, with understanding that the future
was s- innovation and technology
based. More specifically, the report talks about
the needs to fix the space between i- intellectual property
development and IPO, more detail on
issues such as need for research foun- or res- a national
research foundation, which has been announced, issues around
intellectual property, and a lot about the
fundamentals of getting innovation
from the science system, but equally focusing on the importance of
stewardship report, stewardship science,
issues such as science diplomacy, international
relations, and so forth. I'll stop there in the interest of
time.
Thank you so much. Uh, so we have, uh, a number of questions here.
Uh, we'll start with Scott Willis.
Uh, thank you, Sir Peter. Um, and I- I'm really interested in your
comments, because withdrawal of support for social sciences and
humanities is something your reports didn't consider, but is
now a government decision, and that sort of intersects your
recommendations. And, and given the, um,
challenges that we face in the 21st century, and our
uniqueness as an island nation, we've got climate
change and all of those natural hazards, how
unusual and problematic is the removal of the support
for these social sciences and humanities?
And do- what are-
Well, first of all, it's, I'm not sure that's a fair statement.
A lot of science, social science and humanities, is supported through
other mechanisms. But it's also true to say that
across the Western world, governments have been looking at the science
system in a much more utilitarian a-
way. And, and I think that that's an unfortunate global
trend. And I think we, in our report, and if you
go back also to our first report, and to our universities report
in particular, we focus on the importance of
universities as the intellectual wellspring of New Zealand, the
importance of social science, which is funded in many ways across
government, the importance of humanities, which is sadly only
fundish- largely funded through the PBRF.
But I think if one looks, I, I, oh, I can't talk yet
to announcements from the Prime Minister's Science Innovation Advisory
Council, which I'm a member, but there is a strong
consideration that social science, humanities remain part of the
science portfolio.
Right.
Thank you.
Uh, supplementary?
Supplementary. Yes. Um, so in relation to,
to that, that funding, the UK and the EU have recently
justified massive multi-year investments in research
by saying that every, every pound or euro pays back eight to 11
times that amount to society. And estimates for the
US are, are, are much higher. Are we losing, or what are we
losing for every dollar that we, that we
withdraw or, or don't invest in research?
Look, I think-Mr. Willis, your question is the
right question. I think it's unfortunately been a bipartisan
issue since 1970. If you look at the graph in our, uh, the
first graph in our report, you'll see we've been diverging in
terms of productivity ever since then from everybody we would compare
ourselves to. Nobel Prizes were given both
by, t- too many years ago, and even la- this year,
t- to, to economists who pointed out the importance of
science and innovation to economies.
And it's particularly important in small economies that lost
their way economically with globalization because of the loss of
manufacturing, and that the next stage in economic
growth is clearly being technology and innovation, and
that should have been clear to both sides of the house for
30 or 40 years. And the numbers from our first report,
and the detail in the second report, show that New Zealand
continues to think it can put it off for another day.
Now, yes, the system needed fixing up.
And there's no debate that there were issues in the system, and the, and the
government is making decisions which I think are sensible in that
way. But at the end of the day, New Zealand will not get the
benefit. If you invest one dollar, you can only get a small return.
If you invest $10, you get a bigger return.
And if you look around the world, New Zealand is the
exception amongst small economies, and in fact, I had a
discussion with one of the Nobel laureates who got the prize the
other da- uh, this year in economics, and he said New Zealand's challenge is
gonna be, does it understand that innovation and science
are key to being a First World country?
Or is New Zealand making a choice to go the other way?
(laughs)
Now, I'm paraphrasing what he said-
... but that's the reality.
Um, I'm primary from Dr. Hamish Campbell.
Excellent. Th- thank, thank you, Sir Peter.
Um, and I to- totally agree and echo your words about science, uh,
science and innovation. Um, my question is, um,
i- it's all well and good setting up, uh, a central funding
agency, uh, but the devil is always going to be in the detail.
And you mention some of, almost kind of, kind of conflicting
things in the report. How do we ensure that we actually have
a wide range of research funded? Uh, y- and you mention in the
report, um, a country of only five million people cannot do
everything, so priority setting is key to the research sys-
system. However, I would actually say that we're actually very poor
at knowing where research and innovation is going to go.
So, how do we make sure that we're actually doing the best science that's actually
gonna lead to the best outcomes rather than actually hav-
having, in effect, people trying to pick
winners?
Well, what you don't want to do is pick losers, so you've got to be careful.
(laughs)
Uh, uh,
I think there's a lot of evidence in science policy
that says the kinds of tests we put into the report,
and which I believe are gonna be re- endorsed by the Prime Minister's Science
Innovation Council, are important. We've gotta...
first of all, it's gotta be quality. Bad research is a waste of money.
Secondly, it's got to be, um, uh,
be, uh, something that can justify the taxpayers'
expenditure. And thirdly, it's gotta justify why we do it
in New Zealand. 'Cause as you said, not even UK can do everything in
science, why c- New Zealand cannot at 5 million.
And our report talks to that. But you do need the full gamut of
research, from, from discovery research, and you need
mechanisms that allow for the
next Rocket Lab or the next, uh,
great innovation that comes out of the universities to flourish.
And I think that you'll see that both the work that
follows from our report and, I think, in the, w- will
allow for that. But at the end of the day, you're quite right.
The mechanisms that the New Zealand Research Foundation uses
need to be i- ne- need to be very robust
and very, very best practice internationally.
And there's a lot going on, wearing my hat as President of the National Science
Council, I can tell you that just picking up what we, how we do
it now and amalgamating it will not work.
We need to have a much m- and so I've been advocating we
need international expertise engaged in the New Zealand Research
Foundation.
Mm-hmm. Sir Hamish?
And, and kind of following on with the international, uh, kind of
theme, um, there's a, it mentions in your report
about looking at outputs and probably moving away from, in effect,
publications. However, we are, uh, the
scientific system is very international and we want our scientists to be
internationally competitive, um, a- and we also want to attract
international scientists here to, here to New Zealand.
How can New Zealand move away from maybe publications yet
still retain-
I think- ... their international competitiveness?
Well, number one is, I think if you look at the global science community, of
which I have a major role in, everybody, and particularly Europe,
is trying to find alternate ways of measuring science performance than
bibliometrics, which is a very self-serving system, as you
know, uh, Dr. Campbell.
Huge. (laughs)
The problem is, uh, that you
want short-term measures of quality and you want long-term
measures of impact, 'cause impact comes later.
And yes, there are
valuable things in bibliometrics, but from the
point of view of the New Zealand citizen, we need something more than
that. And the science community internationally, and particularly the European
Commission, as well, and the various groups around the U- EU
and the International Science Council, are all trying to
find mechanisms to get a more complete way of
looking at science than that. As you know, Dr.
Campbell, the-... just, just 'cause it's published in Nature doesn't
mean it's great science.
(laughs)
And, and so less than half the papers in Nature actually stand the
test of time.
Hmm. Mm-hmm.
So we have to, we have to look at them in a sli- in a different
way, but we haven't found a better way.
It's a bit like with old saying about democracy, that's, uh, uh,
it's a-
Mm-hmm.
... bad form of government, but nobody's thought anything better.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Um, primary from Dr. David Wilson.
Good morning, Sir Peter. Um, very welcome the report, very much welcome the
report. I'm gonna challenge you a little bit.
Um, uh, yeah, because I'm really interested in the innovation
part of this whole new ecosystem we've set up.
And, and I agree with the, uh,
attempt, really, to integrate and provide a systems approach for our national
innovation system. Um, where I'm going to challenge is from the
bottom up. Um, internationally, when you're looking at
innovation, you're looking to do things at a regional level in a lot
of cases, and the connection between the national innovation system and what
happens on the ground, I, A, uh, i.e.
the science push versus the market pull, how do we
pull those things together? Because the old publish and perish is not
working. And, you know, when you're talking to
clusters of, uh, innovators and businesses in a, at a
regional level, they'll be looking far more at what their local
conditions are, what their market challenges are for their own particular
sector, and how can they pull in the science, and the
innovation, and interact with our national innovation system?
Often, it's just a repeat of the ivory towers missing the
point.
Well, I don't ... Well, uh, number one is, I agree with everything you've said.
Cities are often the major units of innovation around the world.
There's no debate about that, for a whole lot of reasons, agglomeration
effects and, and working with work.
Secondly, our first report and our universities report talk a
lot about the boundaries between, uh, the academic side of
science and the applied science. But the biggest thing, and we
spent a lot of time in this report, probably a
disproportionate amount, and you might ask why, on that
interface between the, between, if you like, discovery and
application, and in particular what we call the IP to
IPO phase. New Zealand doesn't have it right.
We failed with Callaghan Innovation for a whole lot of reasons we don't need,
need to go into now. We want to
follow the best practices from Israel, Ireland,
Singapore and so forth in that areas, Finland and so
forth.
It's buried in, in the detail of understanding
that the interface is not tr- is not a
sharp transition. It's a matter of sharing risk, and how
that risk is shared over time from being 100%,
if you like, state risk, to 100% private risk.
And we spent a lot of time in the report trying to take, if you,
the, the policy community through understanding that.
And the solution that we've looked at, which
certainly overseas people think if we can adopt it will be best
in class, is to link it very much to a s- to the New Zealand
Institute of Advanced Technology Agency, and provide the
risk-sharing mechanisms through that.
And that, with a hub and spoke model, should help.
But you're right at the end. Until the institutions of
science and the institutions of private sector get
closer together, it's a psychological thing as much as a practical
thing. And the issue is
when you only invest 0.6% of GDP, at best, from
the private sector, that's well below the international evidence you need
0.8 to 0.9% to start to get the
infrastructure in the private sector, and the interest of
those who can invest at scale into the system.
70% of the research in the world is done by no- is supported by the
multinational corporations, and we don't have
enough activity here to justify them investing in
here and creating the complete ecosystem.
You only have to look around the world.
Every other small advanced economy has done it.
The question is, will we remain one?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, just a-
Yeah.
... quick supplementary. Yes, Sir Peter, I agree with everything (laughs) you just
said as well. And, um, some thought I think perhaps
needs to go into how we make those connections on the ground, 'cause every ...
You know, even if you took earth sciences, every single region in New Zealand would
have a different idea about what the use of that research would, could
be, or would be in their region. You know, each, each region has
its own distinct regional economy.
So those connections to draw in the private sector, where they
can see value that's going to be added to their endeavor, I
think that's gonna be critical.
I agree. But then you do need a system that, as I said, of
risk-sharing in the appropriate way.
And that's what-
Yeah.
... we, that's what we've been recommending in our report, and that's why we spent
so much time on it. Uh, because whether it's risk-sharing
for something advanced technology in Auckland, or
something around an agricultural technology in Hawke's Bay, it's
the same phenomenon. Risk-sharing occurs between the public and
private se- It's a gradual transition, not a sharp transition.
Thank you, Sir Peter.
Um, new primary from Reuben Davidson.
Thank you, Madam Chair, and, and good morning, Sir Peter.
Thank you for your, um, excellent answers so far.
Um, I keep hearing a lot of concern that New Zealand's best scientists are heading
overseas. Should these reforms have s- have stopped that?
And if not, how can we, or what will?
Well, they're heading over ... Well, number one is we don't have a lot of
detail, but I think your suspicion and my suspicion is that
we don't have, we don't have a stable system.
Uh, secondly, uh, uh, and we are losing scientists of merit who
we've spent a lot of money investing in training.
Uh, if you look at it through in that way, we're exporting something
more than just-... knowledge, we're exporting
investment. Retaining them
is a matter of what we've talked about already in this discussion, Ruben,
namely, uh, uh, we've got to have a healthy
ecosystem, a vibrant innovation system,
bilateral support from all the political parties that science
and innovation are a core part of growth, whether it's for
stewardship purposes or economic growth, both
require, uh, us to have a robust, healthy system.
And unfortunately, and I, and I'll be blunt, I think every
past administration has always said this is a luxury that can be
put for, off till another time. A- And whether
it's one side of the House or the other, that's been the case for
50 years. And I think N- it, New Zealand's exceptionalism is
now paying a price in a world that's now
rapidly using technology, in- and
innovation, not just in economic growth, but in
social development and policy development and so forth,
environmental management. We've got a lot to catch up.
Yeah.
Uh, new question from Scott Willis.
Yeah. Th- thank you again, Sir, Sir Gluckman.
Your report suggested that between 0.5 and
0.7%, or as you've just mentioned,
0.8 to 0.9% of GDP going into
the foundations of public research was a critical
threshold for the effectiveness of the entire system, and
I think you've described some of the consequences of the lack of
funding over subsequent governments.
But, you know, how far are we from this critical threshold right
now? And, and
what do we need to do?
Well, funnily enough, it's not a lot of money (laughs)
I mean, but, uh, I mean, it's significant money and every dollar of the
taxpayers' money really counts. But in the overall expenditure of
government, we're talking about another 0.1,
0.2, 0.3% of GDP. It would, couldn't all
be absorbed in one year. I mean, I think there, it needs to be
built up. It nearly happened in the 2010, '11
period until the earthquake in Christchurch shifted,
uh, uh, the government's priorities for obvious acute
reasons. But there had been a- an agreement to do so at
that time. Uh, and I think, I would hope,
as Finland has done,
the Finnish Government has achieved, which is a bipartisan
agreement on the investment strategy for R&D for
Finland for the next decade. And there has been ...
they've achieved it across the House.
And
I would like to make a plea to all of you.
Science and innovation is not a partisan issue.
Mm-hmm.
Yes, we live in a healthy democracy where you should debate
and you do debate many things. But I think whether we
want science innovation for economic growth, grow our private
sector, to make better decisions as a country, to be a
place which promotes the intellectual wellspring of New Zealand, all
said and done, we are an innovative country, psychologically at
least, or whether it's just to look after the
basic assets of New Zealand. New Zealand is ...
Every government's primary responsibility should be stewardship of our people,
our culture, our economy, our infrastructure, our
environment, and our international relationships.
Coming back to the question about keep retaining, uh, attracting
talent. All of that needs science
innovation at a l- a level we don't currently have.
Yes, we have fixed the s- not fixed, we're in the process of getting a
system which is better developed for the 21st century,
from what was developed in 1991. But that's,
that's the architecture. It doesn't actually change things
on the ground. And we are in a global war now for
talent. Uh, coming back to an earlier question from one of the other members of the
panel, the opportunities that exist because
of geopolitical change, for New Zealand-
Mm-hmm.
... to be attractive for other reasons-
Hmm.
... is at a time when other countries are investing
heavily, Singapore, European Union,
France itself, other European countries, to
attract talent. China is being very aggressive with European
and American talent as well.
New Zealand's got something special to offer in some areas.
Yes, we may not be at the cutting edge of some areas of
science, but we certainly are at the cutting edge of some
areas, and we've certainly got the potential to do,
at scale-
Can I supplement?
... many things that we are not doing.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, supplementary, Scott Willis.
Supplementary. So, um, the new body, Research Funding New Zealand,
somewhat resembles your proposed Research Council, but
there are also differences in, are you concerned about the lack of
independence of Research Funding New Zealand from MBIE
and, and that we might lose some expertise
or, um, that if it's not transferred from the Marsden Funds
Council and Health Research Council?
Is that-
Look- ... is that a ... Yeah.
Uh, uh, Minister Reti and I have had lengthy discussions about this, because
there's pros and cons of one extreme or the
other. And, you know, having it buried in the
ministry as the current Science Board is, in the case of the Endeavor
Fund, has problems, and there's been real concerns.
Equally, being totally remote from the taxpayers' interests is
also a concern. Whether we've got the, whether the
minister's got this right or not will be the devil of the detail of how
the board is structured, how the board operates, and
the quality of the board. I think that there were concerns
obviously about the Science Board being somewhat of
a-... I don't know, I better be careful about my words, but
... 'Cause they were good people, but their level of independence was not
there. At least the NZRF board, uh,
should be established as a distinct entity,
albeit that it is not inappropriate, and
it's part of the social contract for science for the Crown to have a view
on priorities. It's when it goes from a view on priorities to
a view on which grants get funded or which scientists get
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. ... that the problems emerge. And I think that's gonna
be ... However this finally settles, that's the key
issue. Where does ... You know, so it's
entirely appropriate for the government of the day to say, "We
want to
foster more research in agritech or more research
in- in- in- in digital," or whatever.
It's not approp- ... When they say, "Peter Gluckman shouldn't get it and, and Scott
Willis should," and it's probably not appropriate to go as
far as
United States has done, where they've said research on gun
control is not, is not-
Mm-hmm.
... something to be funded by the state.
So there is a, a-
Mm-hmm.
... subtlety in the social contract, irrespective of the
organizational structure. Because the Crown could still,
even under the current system, have said, "Marsden Fund
cannot fund this," or, "The AHRC cannot fund this." So I
think we've got to be careful to separate out the practical
side of how, in a small country, the taxpayers' money's
properly looked after, from the decision-making over which research
is done, which I think international best practice is clear
about the importance of extended ...
Of the Haldane Principle. But I think
increasingly for some kinds of research, extended peer
review is needed, which brings the stakeholder into the
consideration.
Mm-hmm.
New primary-
I was gonna s-
Oh, sorry. Um, a supplementary, Dr. Hamill.
Uh, thank you. And, and, P- Peter, you mentioned about EU
investing a lot of money and there is opportunities, um, and also you talk
about attracting talent here, but also attracting foreign
funding here. What should New Zealand do?
Uh, in Canterbury we've been quite successful with a few EU
grants. What should we be doing to actually be attracting
more international grants to New Zealand?
Well, we've gotta be out there, Hamish.
I mean-
Mm-hmm.
... our scientists need to be exposed to ...
I mean, at the end of the day, collaboration is built on relationships,
as you know. And therefore, our scientists need to be out
there. We have the lowest international science diplomacy
profile in, in the Western world. I've suggested
in the report ways in which it could be improved for virtually no
money, very ... You know, under a half a million dollars probably in
total a year. But it needs to be done, because if you're
not building the bridges between scientists and
scientists, funders and funders, we're
not part ... We're not, uh, heavily engaged, for instance, in the
Research on Research initiative.
We're not engaged in a lot of different things around the world that
to- ... The EU is a great partnership, and I was glad to be part of the
start of those discussions, before it t- was taken further by
the later administration. But it's not the be-all and
end-all. There's many other aspects of social science with
foundations, with other relationships, and the international
science system is evolving. It comes back to our brain drain
issues, lots of other issues. If we're not out there with
disc- uh, presenting New Zealand and having a scientific
dip- diplomatic effort of note, we cannot
win. And so again, the report is not
suggesting large amounts of money in that space, but it is
saying we need to do more. Secondly, I think
that where countries invest in international partnerships, they always get a
return. The Catalyst Fund is very small.
I would like to see, and I've said to previous ministers, I would like to see
the amount of money available for international partnerships far greater
and less targeted to ... Too much of our
international science relationship is based on
past visits of prime ministers or presidents and a
specific, "Let's announce this fellowship," or something.
It needs to be based on strategy for New Zealand's interests-
Yes, totally.
... not based on
we have to ... Oh, the minister, Prime Minister X has visited or we've
percent- ... And we've therefore announced a fellowship or something.
It's gotta be how ... You know, let's say something
like, "In applied, uh, artificial intelligence for a given
area, which are the leading countries to partnership?" It may not be
the, uh, where we have the relationship now.
It might be another country. For example, I'll just
throw it up. Our closest geographical neighbor technically
is France through New Caledonia. We, France has got some
of the most AI-developed relationships in the
world. Are we seeing France as an obvious partner in AI?
I'm not sure we are.
Mm-hmm.
I'm just using it as an example, not as a, uh,
recommendation (laughs) .
(laughs) All right. Uh, final question, which is a supplementary from Reuben Davidson.
Thank you, Madam Chair. Um, and thank you, Sir Peter, for excellent answers this
morning. We all have different perspectives, but one thing I think we'd all be
interested in is whether you'd be able to share that report, the low-cost one,
um-
... if that's something that you'd be able to share with the committee.
Uh, it's in here. Uh, I, I can give you more detail, Reuben, and happy
to do so, but basically if you read our section on
internationalization and social diplo-, we said-...
other countries have developed a concept of scientists as ambassadors,
where they actually take three or four leading scientists and say,
"Your area is either by discipline or by region,"
and they put them out there to build the relationships.
To be blunt, if you sent an official, and I'm not criticizing
officials from either MFAT or MBIE, they're not gonna get
entry to the, eh, you know, "We want to see what y- we can do in, let's say,
agritech." They don't get to see the head of the institute
or the leading scientists. You send our most distinguished scientists
to talk to other countries in agritech, you will find
opportunities that haven't been there before.
Uh, just to give you an example from my
own background, when I was chief scientist, I
developed a relationship with, uh, the president of the European
Commission's, uh, chief strategist on the value
of the IDI and how the IDI could be used.
Now, various things got in the way in the long run, uh, but in the
end, there are opportunities we don't look at and
see. Uh, you know, it's, the, it's, I'm
not criticizing officials, but they do not have the entry
that, let's say, a Sir Peter Hunter or, or, uh, somebody like
myself has to actually build and identify the
opportunities that are there. So, we suggested that New Zealand should
have four, three to four science ambassadors that might
be paid a small honorarium, and obviously their costs met,
and they were designed to go out three or four times a year
and actually target particular areas to identify opportunities
and build relationships. If I knock on the door, I can
see, just to take France's example, the head of ANR, their
principal funding system, or the head of CNRS
easily. If an official from ... The one official we have
in Europe from MBIE, one official who might get to
Paris two or three times a year, he's not gonna get that
entry, or she's not gonna get that entry.
Yeah.
That's just the reality of the world.
Mm. Mm.
Yeah. So, Sir Peter, um, thank you so much for your time this morning.
And c- can I also thank you on behalf of our committee for the
contribution that you continues to, um, uh, continue to make to
our science systems. Thank you so much.
Thank you. And thank you for the committee, all of you, for being
non-partisan and taking this seriously in an appropriate
way. That is how New Zealand will progress, when we can identify these
areas which are fundamental to New Zealand's progress.
So, thank you, madam
Good message. Thank you.
Thank you.